README.md, before:

# Kafka Avro Dumper

Kafka Avro dumping utility written in Go.

Most command-line tools that can consume Avro records from Kafka output data using
[Avro JSON encoding](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#json-encoding).
When using Avro [union types](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions),
the Avro JSON encoding includes the specific type in the field to disambiguate.

For example, for a `fieldTwo` field defined as type `[null, string]` in Avro:
```json
{"fieldOne":100,"fieldTwo":{"string":"hello"}}
```

While the above is necessary for correctly encoding JSON data into Avro, it can become inconvenient
when decoding plain JSON data from Avro and feeding it into non-Avro applications for processing.

For a more conveniently decoded JSON data, this tool uses the
[`goavro`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/linkedin/goavro/v2) library. More specifically, `kadumper`
uses the [`NewCodecForStandardJSONFull`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/linkedin/goavro/v2#NewCodecForStandardJSONFull)
codec which (from the documentation) _provides full serialization/deserialization for JSON data that
meets the expectations of regular internet JSON_.

For the same example `fieldTwo` field shown above, `kadumper` outputs the following JSON data:
```json
{"fieldOne":100,"fieldTwo":"hello"}
```

As added convenience, `kadumper` can also output raw textual data (non-Avro) from Kafka.

## Building

> **Note:** Ready-to-use binaries are available in the
> [releases page](https://github.com/hhromic/kadumper/releases).

To build a snapshot locally Using [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/):
```
goreleaser build --clean --single-target --output kadumper --snapshot
```

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License Version 2.0](LICENSE).

Commit message:

README: add basic usage information

README.md, after:

# Kafka Avro Dumper

Kafka Avro dumping utility written in Go.

Most command-line tools that can consume Avro records from Kafka output data using
[Avro JSON encoding](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#json-encoding).
When using Avro [union types](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions),
the Avro JSON encoding includes the specific type in the field to disambiguate.

For example, for a `fieldTwo` field defined as type `[null, string]` in Avro:
```json
{"fieldOne":100,"fieldTwo":{"string":"hello"}}
```

While the above is necessary for correctly encoding JSON data into Avro, it can become inconvenient
when decoding plain JSON data from Avro and feeding it into non-Avro applications for processing.

For a more conveniently decoded JSON data, this tool uses the
[`goavro`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/linkedin/goavro/v2) library. More specifically, `kadumper`
uses the [`NewCodecForStandardJSONFull`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/linkedin/goavro/v2#NewCodecForStandardJSONFull)
codec which (from the documentation) _provides full serialization/deserialization for JSON data that
meets the expectations of regular internet JSON_.

For the same example `fieldTwo` field shown above, `kadumper` outputs the following JSON data:
```json
{"fieldOne":100,"fieldTwo":"hello"}
```

As added convenience, `kadumper` can also output raw textual data (non-Avro) from Kafka.

## Usage

All currently available command-line arguments can be seen with `-h/--help`.

Consuming Avro data from Kafka is currently only supported in
[Confluent Wire format](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/sr/fundamentals/serdes-develop/index.html#wire-format)
with schemas automatically downloaded from a Schema Registry instance.
Downloaded schemas are cached with a configurable maximum caching age.
[Confluent Platform](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/overview.html) and
[Redpanda](https://redpanda.com/) have both been tested.

To output raw textual data (non-Avro) from Kafka, omit the `--schema-registry-url` argument.

Output Kafka records are separated by a newline `\n` character. For each record, output timestamps,
partitions, offsets, keys and values are separated by a TAB `\t` character. All output is sent to
the standard output.

Currently, only anonymous plain-text and mutual TLS authentication connections are supported.

## Building

> **Note:** Ready-to-use binaries are available in the
> [releases page](https://github.com/hhromic/kadumper/releases).

To build a snapshot locally Using [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/):
```
goreleaser build --clean --single-target --output kadumper --snapshot
```

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License Version 2.0](LICENSE).
